egdd.md, before:

# Game Name

## Elevator Pitch

*A one sentence pitch for your game. Pretend that your were pitching your game to a executive going to the elevator. You have less than 60 Seconds. Check [this resource](http://www.gameacademy.com/perfecting-indie-games-elevator-pitch/) for more information.*

## Influences (Brief)

- *Influence #1*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*
- *Influence #2*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*
- *Influence #3*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*

## Core Gameplay Mechanics (Brief)

*Give a very high-level description of any core gameplay mechanics*

- *Gameplay Mechanic #1*
- *Gameplay Mechanic #2*
- *Gameplay Mechanic #3*
- *Gameplay Mechanic #4*

# Learning Aspects

## Learning Domains

*Briefly list any and all of the disciplines and learning domains for this subject.*

## Target Audiences

*Who are your learners?*

## Target Contexts

*Describe what kinds of formal and informal learning contexts this will be used in (e.g., courses, k-12 computer labs during free time).*

## Learning Objectives

*Remember, Learning Objectives are NOT simply topics. They are statements of observable behavior that a learner can do after the learning experience. You cannot observe someone "understanding" or "knowing" something.*

- *Short Name*: *Formal Learning Objective #1*
- *Short Name*: *Formal Learning Objective #2*
- *Short Name*: *Formal Learning Objective #3*

## Prerequisite Knowledge

*What do they need to know prior to trying this game?*

- *Prerequisite Learning Objective #1*
- *Prerequisite Learning Objective #2*

## Assessment Measures

*Describe how the learning will be assessed, e.g., pre/post multiple-choice test, or SAT, or some other instrument.*

*If proposing a new instrument, briefly and concisely list some example assessment questions.*

# What sets this project apart?

*Give some reasons why this game is not like every other game out there. Whether the learning objective is unique, the gameplay mechanics are new, or what. You should persuade the reader that your game is novel and worthy of development. Consider arguments that would be persuasive to a Venture Capitalist, Teacher, or Researcher. These might be focused on learning needs, too.*

- *Reason #1*
- *Reason #2*
- *Reason #3*
- *Reason #4*
- *etc.*

# Player Interaction Patterns and Modes

## Player Interaction Pattern

*Describe how people play your game, how many players are involved at once, how they interact with the system works, etc.*

## Player Modes

*Your game has one or more player modes. Describe each discrete mode, considering things like menus too. Generally describe the transitions between modes too.*

- *Player mode #1*: *Description*
- *Player mode #2*: *Description*
- *etc.*

# Gameplay Objectives

- *Primary Objective #1*:
    - Description: *Description*
    - Alignment: *Describe how this aligns with one or more learning objectives*
- *Primary Objective #2*:
    - Description: *Description*
    - Alignment: *Describe how this aligns with one or more learning objectives*
- *etc.*

# Procedures/Actions

*Describe the control scheme and what actions a user can take in the game.*

# Rules

*What resources are available to the player that they make use of?  How does this affect gameplay? How are these resources finite?*

# Objects/Entities

*What other things are in the world that you need to design? These may or may not directly translate to actual objects and classes.*

## Core Gameplay Mechanics (Detailed)

- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #1*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*
- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #2*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*
- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #3*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*

    
## Feedback

*Explicitly describe what visual/audio/animation indicators there are that give players feedback on their progress towards their gameplay objectives (and ideally the learning objectives).*

*Describe what longer-term feedback you detect and give that guides the player in their learning and lets them know how they are doing in regards to the learning objectives.*

# Story and Gameplay

## Presentation of Rules

*Briefly describe how the player will learn the gameplay mechanics. Avoid using walls of text, since people will not read them. Think instead of natural ways of teaching mechanics iteratively and slowly.*

## Presentation of Content

*Briefly describe how the player will be taught the core material they are meant to learn. Avoid using walls of text, since people will not read them. Think instead of natural ways of teaching material iteratively and slowly.*

## Story (Brief)

*The Summary or TL;DR version of below*

## Storyboarding

*Go into as much detail as needs be to visually convey the Dynamics of your game. Be detailed. Create storyboards and freeze frame images that concisely capture important key elements of your game. You are strongly recommended to sketch pictures on paper and embed them here. Be sure make it clear how previously-described mechanics come through in the dynamics.*

# Assets Needed

## Aethestics

*Give a sense of the aesthetics of your game, the spirit and atmosphere. Use descriptive, evocative words that can help the reader understand the emotional response of your game.*

## Graphical

- Characters List
  - *Characters 1*
  - *Characters 2*
  - *...*
- Textures:
  - *Texture 1*
  - *Texture 2*
  - *...*
- Environment Art/Textures:
  - *Environment Texture 1*
  - *Environment Texture 2*
  - *...*


## Audio


*Game region/phase/time are ways of designating a particularly important place in the game.*

- Music List (Ambient sound)
  - *Game region/phase/time*: *Example 1*, *Example 2*
  - *Game region/phase/time*: *Example 3*, *Example 4*
  
*Game Interactions are things that trigger SFX, like character movement, hitting a spiky enemy, collecting a coin.*

- Sound List (SFX)
  - *Game Interaction*: *Example 1*, *Example 2*
  - *Game Interaction*: *Example 3*, *Example 4*


# Metadata

* Template created by Austin Cory Bart <acbart@udel.edu>, Mark Sheriff, Alec Markarian, and Benjamin Stanley.
* Version 0.0.3

Commit message:

Added some info about our game

egdd.md, after:

# Game Name

## Elevator Pitch

*A one sentence pitch for your game. Pretend that your were pitching your game to a executive going to the elevator. You have less than 60 Seconds. Check [this resource](http://www.gameacademy.com/perfecting-indie-games-elevator-pitch/) for more information.*

## Influences (Brief)

- *Influence #1*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*
- *Influence #2*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*
- *Influence #3*:
  - Medium: *(Television, Games, Literature, Movies, etc.)*
  - Explanation: *In one paragraph or less, explain why this is an influence.*

## Core Gameplay Mechanics (Brief)

*Give a very high-level description of any core gameplay mechanics*

- *Use arrow keys (OR WASD) to move*
- *Drag colors to color mixing area to change chameleon colors*
- *If the player is a different color than the floor, then the suspicion meter rises*
- *The player loses if the suspicion meter reaches 100%* 

# Learning Aspects

## Learning Domains

*Briefly list any and all of the disciplines and learning domains for this subject.*
*Art, color theory*

## Target Audiences

*Who are your learners?*
*Mid-late elementary school kids*

## Target Contexts

*Describe what kinds of formal and informal learning contexts this will be used in (e.g., courses, k-12 computer labs during free time).*
*Computer labs during free time for kids of appropriate age*

## Learning Objectives

*Remember, Learning Objectives are NOT simply topics. They are statements of observable behavior that a learner can do after the learning experience. You cannot observe someone "understanding" or "knowing" something.*

- *Short Name*: *By the end of this lesson, students should be able to mix specified primary colors into secondary colors*
- *Short Name*: *By the end of this lesson, students should be able to identify primary and secondary colors*
- *Short Name*: *Formal Learning Objective #3*

## Prerequisite Knowledge

*What do they need to know prior to trying this game?*

- *Prior to the game, students should be able to identify and distinguish colors*
- *Prerequisite Learning Objective #2*

## Assessment Measures

*Describe how the learning will be assessed, e.g., pre/post multiple-choice test, or SAT, or some other instrument.*

*If proposing a new instrument, briefly and concisely list some example assessment questions.*

*We could use a pre and post free response quiz. Some example of possible questions are:
Is Red a primary color, What primary color makes up the color green?*

# What sets this project apart?

*Give some reasons why this game is not like every other game out there. Whether the learning objective is unique, the gameplay mechanics are new, or what. You should persuade the reader that your game is novel and worthy of development. Consider arguments that would be persuasive to a Venture Capitalist, Teacher, or Researcher. These might be focused on learning needs, too.*

- *The concept of using color matching for steatlh as a main game-play aspect is unique*
- *Color theory is an under-taught discipline*
- *Reason #3*
- *Reason #4*
- *etc.*

# Player Interaction Patterns and Modes

## Player Interaction Pattern

*Describe how people play your game, how many players are involved at once, how they interact with the system works, etc.*
*There is one player that plays at a time. They move around on a grid of paths, trying to match their color with the color of the path.*

## Player Modes

*Your game has one or more player modes. Describe each discrete mode, considering things like menus too. Generally describe the transitions between modes too.*

- *Single player: You advance your way through different levels, during each of which you try to navigate your way to the goal.*
- *Player mode #2*: *Description*
- *etc.*

# Gameplay Objectives

- *Primary Objective #1*:
    - Description: *Reach the goal while not being seen*
    - Alignment: *In order to not be seen, you need to match your color to the floor/background*
- *Primary Objective #2*:
    - Description: *Description*
    - Alignment: *Describe how this aligns with one or more learning objectives*
- *etc.*

# Procedures/Actions

*Describe the control scheme and what actions a user can take in the game.*
*Use the arrow keys to move around and drag colors to the palatte to change the chameleons colors*

# Rules

*What resources are available to the player that they make use of?  How does this affect gameplay? How are these resources finite?*

# Objects/Entities

*What other things are in the world that you need to design? These may or may not directly translate to actual objects and classes.*

## Core Gameplay Mechanics (Detailed)

- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #1*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*
- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #2*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*
- *Core Gameplay Mechanic #3*: *Describe in 2 paragraphs or less, along with how it generally works*

    
## Feedback

*Explicitly describe what visual/audio/animation indicators there are that give players feedback on their progress towards their gameplay objectives (and ideally the learning objectives).*

*Describe what longer-term feedback you detect and give that guides the player in their learning and lets them know how they are doing in regards to the learning objectives.*

# Story and Gameplay

## Presentation of Rules

*Briefly describe how the player will learn the gameplay mechanics. Avoid using walls of text, since people will not read them. Think instead of natural ways of teaching mechanics iteratively and slowly.*

## Presentation of Content

*Briefly describe how the player will be taught the core material they are meant to learn. Avoid using walls of text, since people will not read them. Think instead of natural ways of teaching material iteratively and slowly.*

## Story (Brief)

*The Summary or TL;DR version of below*

## Storyboarding

*Go into as much detail as needs be to visually convey the Dynamics of your game. Be detailed. Create storyboards and freeze frame images that concisely capture important key elements of your game. You are strongly recommended to sketch pictures on paper and embed them here. Be sure make it clear how previously-described mechanics come through in the dynamics.*

# Assets Needed

## Aethestics

*Give a sense of the aesthetics of your game, the spirit and atmosphere. Use descriptive, evocative words that can help the reader understand the emotional response of your game.*

## Graphical

- Characters List
  - *Characters 1*
  - *Characters 2*
  - *...*
- Textures:
  - *Texture 1*
  - *Texture 2*
  - *...*
- Environment Art/Textures:
  - *Environment Texture 1*
  - *Environment Texture 2*
  - *...*


## Audio


*Game region/phase/time are ways of designating a particularly important place in the game.*

- Music List (Ambient sound)
  - *Game region/phase/time*: *Example 1*, *Example 2*
  - *Game region/phase/time*: *Example 3*, *Example 4*
  
*Game Interactions are things that trigger SFX, like character movement, hitting a spiky enemy, collecting a coin.*

- Sound List (SFX)
  - *Game Interaction*: *Example 1*, *Example 2*
  - *Game Interaction*: *Example 3*, *Example 4*


# Metadata

* Template created by Austin Cory Bart <acbart@udel.edu>, Mark Sheriff, Alec Markarian, and Benjamin Stanley.
* Version 0.0.3
